when you're welding tubes and pipes
together the hard
is getting the fit in the first place
so what we do we've got an adjustable
template that all you have to do is
press it in and it shows you exactly the
shape that you need to cut so you slide
it over the tube trace it out and you
know exactly what shape to cut for each
joint okay so that's pretty simple one
you can do that about 10 minutes now if
you're doing like a roll cage where
you've got a lot of bracing coming
together at the same spot the end cuts
get a little bit more complicated
there's the end cut for the next piece
and that's that one you're going to
imagine if you're trying to eyeball what
that looks like and how long it would
take you yeah this is just trace and cut
slip it over trace it out you know
exactly what shape to cut shouldn't take
you more than about 15 minutes
oh plasma cutter and a die grinder you
just set so here's where it really pays
off if you wanted to put a tube in you
don't cut just one in you've got to cut
both in so here's how to lay out both
ends of the tube before you ever make a
cut cut the two ends put it in and it's
ready to weld
say I want to put a tube from this elbow
down to the table
what I'd do is take two scraps of tubing
and a scrap of angle iron and I make
basically an adjustable length tube so
I'll come in here and I say this is
where I want the real tube to go slide
them out to where they touch make sure
I've got all my angle adjustments just
to where I want them and then I'll tack
well this tube in this tube okay so
they're they're sitting here like this
in space
take the same piece of angle iron
and put a center line down these two
tubes okay the reason for the center
line we're gonna have perfect cuts but
if we twist them in relationship to each
other they're not going to fit you got
it here's my center line there's a gap
I'm gonna follow that right up that
center line that I put on this on the
stub I'll make up a pattern like so now
here's the trick you take a silver
sharpie or something similar then you
put a small dot in this gap right here
right behind the plastic housing because
that's going to tell you how long to
make this piece
so here's my material that I want to cut
I've put a centerline on it I slipped
the tool right over make sure I'm on
centerline draw my end cut and then put
that small dot right back in here behind
the housing so that ends all laid out
now I want to lay out the other end
this is tacked in place and I'm just
going to make sure I follow that
centerline down I'll make my pattern
and now all I have to do is take a tape
measure and measure it from this point
up to the dot that I left on this little
stub
it's exactly how long it's going to be
suppose this is 7 and 7/16 of an inch I
mean you can measure really accurately
a perfect fit you put it on your tube
okay remember the dot I left up here
I'll measure out seven and seven
sixteenths slide the tool back so it
touches make sure I'm on the center line
and now I lay out this head
so what I've got is a tube that's got
layout for a perfect cut
on both ends for where you want to put
it
it goes where you want it to go not
where it wants to go there are simple
tools their lifetime guarantee okay
anything goes wrong with them other than
maybe if you run over and with your
truck I can't help you that will take
care of any parts maintenance you need